

# Installation

DiracBilinears.jl can be installed with the Julia package manager:
```
julia -e 'import Pkg; Pkg.add("DiracBilinears")'
```

# Usage

### Spatial distribution

The following files are required:
- seedname.scf.in (The input file for scf calculation.)
- seedname.nscf.in (The input file for nscf calculation.)

Before evaluation of the bilinears, you need to perform DFT calculations by [Quantum ESPRESSO](https://www.quantum-espresso.org) to obtain the Bloch functions.
```sh
QE/bin/pw.x < seedname.scf.in > seedname.scf.out
QE/bin/pw.x < seedname.nscf.in > seedname.nscf.out
```



To compute the spatial distribution of electron chirality, use the following commands:
```Julia
using DiracBilinears
τz = calc_density(calc="τz", qedir="$outdir/seedname.save")
```
Here, `qedir` should be set to the output directory from the Quantum ESPRESSO calculation, which contains the Bloch wave functions.
The variable `$outdir` corresponds to the directory specified in the nscf input file.
You can select the physical quantity to calculate by specifying the `calc` option. 
The available options are listed in the table below.

`calc`                   | Physical quantities 
:------------------------|:----------------------------------
`"ρ"` (or `"rho"`)       | electron density 
`"ms"`                   | magnetization 
`"j"`                    | current 
`"∇ms"` (or `"nabla_ms"`)| pseudoscalar
`"τz"` (or `"tau_z"`)    | electron chirality
`"∇ρ"` (or `"nabla_rho"`)| gradient part of polarization
`"ps"`                   | spin-derived electric polarization

You can generate the xsf file for [XCrySDen](http://www.xcrysden.org/) plot after the `calc_density()` calculation:
```Julia
write_density(τz; qedir=QEDIR, savefile=FILENAME)
```
The file extension of FILENAME must be set to ".xsf".



### Wannier matrix element

The following files are required:
- seedname.scf.in (The input file for scf calculation.)
- seedname.pw2wan.in (The input file for pw2wannier90.x.)
- seedname.win.ref (The reference file for generating the input file of Wannier90.)
- conf.toml (The configuration file for wan2respack.)

For the Wannier matrix elements, you first need to perform DFT calculations using [Quantum ESPRESSO](https://www.quantum-espresso.org) to obtain the Bloch functions. 
You can do this by running:
```sh
QE/bin/pw.x < seedname.scf.in > seedname.scf.out
```
After completing the scf calculation, you can generate the Wannier functions using [Wannier90](https://wannier.org) and [wan2respack](https://github.com/respack-dev/wan2respack) (for more information, see the GitHub page of [wan2respack](https://github.com/respack-dev/wan2respack)).
First, run:
```sh
python Wan2respack/bin/wan2respack.py -pp conf.toml
```
This command will generate an input file `seedname.nscf_wannier.in`. 
In this file, please replace `calc="scf"` with `calc="nscf"`.
Next, calculate the Wannier functions by running:
```
QE/bin/pw.x < seedname.nscf_wannier.in > seedname.nscf_wannier.out
Wanier90/wannier90.x -pp seedname
QE/bin/pw2wannier90.x < seedname.pw2wan.in > seedname.pw2wan.out
Wanier90/wannier90.x seedname
python Wan2respack/bin/wan2respack.py conf.toml
```




To compute the matrix elements, you need to specify the paths of two directories, "dir-wfn-full" (referred to as `WFNDIR`) and "dir-wan" (referred to as `WANDIR`). 
These directories are generated by the [wan2respack](https://github.com/respack-dev/wan2respack) calculation. 
To calculate the matrix elements of electron chirality, use the following commands:
```Julia
using DiracBilinears
rs, degen = calc_rgrid(rfile=FILENAME)
τz = calc_wannier_matrix(calc="τz", rgrid=rs, wfndir=WFNDIR, wandir=WANDIR)
```
Please set `rfile` to the input file of Wannier90 or the input file of scf calculation. 
You can choose the type of `calc` from the table shown below.

`calc`                              | Physical quantities 
:-----------------------------------|:----------------------------------
`"ρ"` (or `"rho"`)                  | electron density 
`"ms"`                              | magnetization 
`"j"`                               | current 
`"τz"` (or `"tau_z"`, `"chirality"`)| electron chirality
`"ps"`                              | spin-derived electric polarization

The Wannier matrix elements can be saved to a text file using the following command:
```Julia
write_wannier_matrix(τz, rs; savefile=FILENAME)
```
